---
date: 9/1/21
title: Could a Bolshevik Revolution Succeed in America?
description: Why did a peaceful nation like Russia turn so deadly in just a couple of months, and what would prevent this from happening to the USA?
searchable: true
topics: russia history ww1 ww2 revolution slavery surf Czar power storm-clouds
---

What started out as a peaceful bread protest turned into a chaotic power vacuum that let to one of the bloodiest regimes the world has ever known.  Why did this happen?  Why did a peaceful nation like Russia turn into a deadly decompression force?  If a vacuum of such intensity struck Russia, what would prevent it from striking the USA?

As the rain pours down in freezing torrents, a platoon of soldiers struggles up an unpaved, muddy road in western Russia.  They are all new recruits, freshly raised as replacements for the thousands of soldiers that have been dying and deserting in the Great War.  As the soldiers march up the miserable road, the sky darkens, both from the gathering storm, and the impending night.  The officer commands a halt, and the soldiers prepare to face another torturous night out in the open.  They have no tents, inadequate clothing, and almost no food - things are not supposed to be any better once they get to the front either.  The food shortages are even worse out there and they will also have to face all of the diseases associated with trench warfare.  Only some of the soldiers have guns, everyone else is supposed to pick up the guns of their comrades once they die.

As the soldiers settle in for the night, the storm increases it's intensity.  A bolt of lightning flashes across the sky, just overhead.  The burning streak of electricity consumes the air around it instantaneously, creating an intense vacuum.  There is a deafeningly terrible shock of thunder as the air around the flash races in to fill the void left by the lighting, colliding with itself in the infamous sound of a thunderclap.  Bad as the situation is where the soldiers are, it is only a bit better back at home.

After losing (or rather, not winning) the Crimean War in 1856, the Russian Czar at the time, Alexander II, made a move towards modernizing his nation.  By "emancipating the surfs" in 1861, which involved forcing them to buy the land they lived on and imposing a very high "redemption tax" on them.  This gave the Czar more money with which to make more modernizations of his nation and military, but at the same time, it plunged the already poor surfs into increased poverty and hunger.  The intense humidity was in the now in the air, raising slowly to the sky.

Around the late 1870's, Russia was making a big move towards industrialization, with massive factories appearing for the first time throughout Russia on a large scale.  Many of the famished peasants went to these large factories with hopes of seeking better lives, but better lives were not to be found here.  Work hours were 18 hours a day, 7 days a week.  Workers never made enough to own their own homes, but instead, single workers had to sleep in company barracks, and an entire families would share a tiny room.  With such horrible conditions, there was bound to be some dissentment in the population, and there was.  Several underground groups were formed, and in 1881, one of them succeeded in assassinating Czar Alexander II, the Czar who liberated the surfs.  The humidity was rising fast and dark storm clouds were starting to appear.

In 1905, Russia went to war with Japan.  This war caused a lot of economic downturn in society, and was extremely unpopular with the people.  Things got so bad, in fact, that a faction of people in the Capital signed a petition to the Czar, and organized a protest on the Winter Palace to deliver it to the Czar.  They never completed their objective.  The Czar's palace guard fired volley after volley upon the people resulting in at least 166 deaths and hundreds of wounded.  This caused an uproar across the empire, resulting in hundreds of protests and strikes.  Despite the risks, many flocked to the underground resistance groups causing them to grow rapidly and therefore wreck more havoc in the empire.  One of these groups called themselves the Bolsheviks.  The clouds were starting to get firmly black and oppressively low.

Just over a decade later, Russia was in the midst of WWI, which took a massive toll on economy, and therefore the population.  Prices skyrocketed and food was very hard to obtain.  Often people had to wait out the in the cold for hours in long lines just to get something to eat.  In February 1917, a peaceful women's protest in the capital turned into a riot involving the mutiny of the city garrison, with the support of almost everyone in the city.  While leading his armies on the front, Czar Nicholas II received an urgent telegram from the capitol saying that the city garrison had mutinied, that the entire city was in arms, and that the situation was desperate.  The Czar responded by sending a faction of his army on the front back to the Capitol to squash the uprising, only to learn that those soldiers joined the mutiny.  With the situation now desperately desperate, the Czar agreed to give in to the demands of the population by stepping down from his position as a ruler, appointing a weak-willed puppet committee in his place.  

Darker storm clouds have rarely been seen, and as the rain pours down in sheets of famine and war on the landless inhabitants, a massive lighting bolt streaks across the sky, screaming with silent chords, "The Czar has resigned!"  And an invisible vacuum of powerlessness is created.  The surrounding air screeches into the void, each molecule of air saying the same thing, "I want power".  And boy!  They will get it.  The most powerful thunderclap of all time is about to follow.

The vacuum, however, was too intense for a mild-mannered committee.  Many were, at this time, racing to get in the power seat.  Lenin wanted to get in power, Stalin and Trotsky wanted all the influence for themselves.  The Czar, with support from the WWI allies, wanted his power back.  Zinoviev and Kamenev wanted a piece of the cake.  Almost the only thing that the weak-willed committee could agree upon was that they wanted to rule Russia.  Hundreds of others wanted to make it to the top.  The fight for power didn't slow down till around three decades later with an estimated 38.5 million lives lost, when the winner, Stalin, set in steel his regime that would kill far more innocent people than Hitler.

Could it happen to America?  There already seem to be storm clouds gathering, some might even say it's raining.  What could be done to prevent a lighting strike?  The answer is simple.  Compress the air with solutions.  Find a solution for the thousands of homeless on the streets, find a solution for the 50 thousand despairing Americans that commit suicide every year.  Find a solution for the 18.3 million children that grow up fatherless, lending them 47% more likely to find themselves in poverty when they grow up.  Find a solution for the infamous sex trafficking and the drug cartels that are making the air thinner day by day.  Want to spawn new solutions on an exponential level?  Find a solution for the million-scores of children that are being actively trained in public school to allow the air to get thinner all around them.  Want to fix all of the problems on a grand scale?  Find a way to save man from his depravity.

If you don't know what any of the solutions are, I think you need to wipe the dust off of a certain book that is probably either on your shelf, or just a few taps away on your phone.  And yes, I am talking about the Bible.  Not only is the biggest solution to our biggest problem solved through it's pages, but in it's very pages lie the simplified answers and case-by-case solutions on how the most free and productive society on earth was run, one that solved all of our modern-day problems.